Instructions for Calculator
Record the following measurements and details bra-less in inches:
1. Snug Underband (SU): A comfortably supportive measurement around your
body, right where your boobs meet your chest/ where your bra band should
sit. Exhale, relax your shoulders.
2. Tight Underband (TU): A measurement around the same part but pulling the
tape as tight as possible, like it could almost break. Exhale, relax your
shoulders.
3. Standing Overbust (SO): A measurement taken loosely around the fullest part
of your bust while standing.
4. Leaning Overbust (LO): A measurement taken loosely around the fullest part
of your bust while leaning over at 90 degrees. This is often bigger than your
standing bust.
5. When you lean over at 90 degrees and let your breasts hang freely, how much
space is naturally between your breasts?
a. There is no space/ my boobs touch ➡ Close-Set Breasts (CS)
b. There is about 1-2 fingers worth of space between my boobs ➡ Average
Space between Breasts (AS)
c. There is more than 2 fingers worth of space between my boobs ➡
Side-Set Breasts (SS)
Logic for Fit Calculator
I. To estimate band size
A. Estimating band size using SU:
● Use SU if it is an even number (e.g. 32 ➡ Band Size 32)
● Round up the SU to the next even round number if it is a whole odd number
or an odd number with a decimal (e.g. 31 - 31.99 ➡ Band Size 32)
● Round down to the nearest even whole number if SU is an even number with
a decimal up to the 0.5 point (e.g. 32.01 - 32.50 ➡ Band Size 32).
● Round up to the next even round number if SU is between an even number
with a decimal above 0.5 to the next odd number (e.g. 32.51 - 32.99 ➡ Band
Size 34)
B. Estimating band size using TU + 2 inches:
● Use TU + 2 if it results in an even whole number (e.g. 30 + 2 ➡ Band Size 32)
● Round up TU + 2 to the next even whole number if it is a whole odd number or
a whole odd number with a decimal (e.g. 29 - 29.99 + 2 = 31 - 31.99 ➡ Band Size
32)
● Round down to the nearest even number if TU + 2 is an even number with a
decimal up to the 0.5 (e.g. 30.01 - 30.50 + 2 = 32.01 - 32.50 ➡ Band Size 32), but
add a suggestion to use an extender, or size up in the band for a more relaxed
fit.
● Round up to the next even whole number if TU + 2 is between an even
number with a decimal above 0.5 to the next odd number (e.g. 30.51 - 30.99 +
2 = 32.51 - 32.99 ➡ Band Size 34)
If A and B steps above yield different results, choose the smaller estimated band
size of the two for calculating the primary size.
II. To estimate cup size
1. Estimating base cup size using SO, LO and SU:
● Subtract SU from the average of SO and LO
○ i.e. (SO+LO)/2 - SU
● Round down to the nearest whole number if the resulting number has a
decimal point between 0.01-0.24 (e.g. 9.1 ➡ 9)
● Adjacent cup rule: If the resulting number has a decimal point between
0.25-0.59, use both the rounded down and the rounded up numbers (e.g. 8.5
➡ 8 and 9)
● Round up to the nearest whole number if the resulting number has a decimal
point between 0.60-0.99 (e.g. 7.7 ➡ 8)
● Map the resulting number(s) to the corresponding cup size as per the chart
below:
(SO+LO)/2 - SU UK Cup Size
4” D
5” DD
6” E
7” F
8” FF
9” G
10” GG
11” H
12” HH
13” J
14” JJ
15” K
16” KK
17” L
E.g. if SU = 31.5, SO = 38.5, and LO = 41.5:
(SO+LO)/ 2 = 40
40 - 31.5 = 8.5 ➡ Base Cup Size FF/G
2. Adjusting cup size based on breast spacing:
If the user selects
● CS: add one Cup Size (e.g. G ➡ GG or FF/G ➡ )
● AS: retain the same Cup Size (e.g. G ➡ G)
● SS: subtract one Cup Size (e.g. G ➡ FF)
III. Other Instructions:
1. Size not available:
Provide the message “Sorry, we don’t carry your size yet - but we’re working on
it!” when:
○ SU < 25 (size prediction would be below 26 band), or
○ TU < 23 (size prediction would be below 26 band), or
○ SU > 40.5 (size prediction would be beyond 40 band), or
○ TU > 38.5 (size prediction would be beyond 40 band), or
○ (SO+LO)/2 - SU > 15” (size prediction would be beyond K cup), or
○ (SO+LO)/2 - SU < 5” (size prediction would be below DD cup)
2. Size not available but sister size available:
Provide message “Although we don’t carry your exact recommended size yet,
a sister size of [insert relevant sister size] might work for you!” when:
○ Calculated size is 26F-L, or
○ Calculated size is 28E-KK
○ Calculated size is 42D-JJ
○ Calculate relevant sister sizes for the specific band estimates as follows:
■ For 26 bands: up two sizes in the band, down two in the cup (26G
➡ 30F)
■ For 28 bands: up one size in the band, down one in the cup (28H
➡ 30GG)
■ For 42 bands: down one size in the band, up one size in the cup
(42F ➡ 40FF)
3. Customer has less “squish”/ Relaxed-fit trigger
Provide the additional message: “Based on your measurements, we
recommend that you either use a non-stretch extender for your first few wears
as you break in your new bra. Or, you could also choose [relaxed-fit sister size]
for a more relaxed fit.” when:
○ The estimated band size using method A and B gives different results,
provide the relaxed-fit sister size using the bigger band size estimate,
or
○ SU = even whole number with a decimal up to the 0.5 point (e.g. 32.01 -
32.50), or
○ TU+2 = even whole number with a decimal up to the 0.5 point (e.g. 32.01
- 32.50).
○ Calculate relaxed fit sister size by increasing the estimated band size by
one size and reducing the cup size by one size (e.g. relaxed fit for 32F ➡
34E). If the adjacent cup rule was triggered, provide the relaxed-fit in
relevant adjacent cups as well (e.g. Relaxed-fit for 32G/GG ➡ 34FF/G)
○ When SU and TU are both odd numbers or odd numbers with a
decimal point (e.g, SU = 31, TU = 29.7), do not provide a relaxed fit option.
4. Customer probably has extra “squish”/ Firm-fit trigger
Provide the additional message “Based on your measurements, you could
choose [firm-fit sister size] for a more supportive fit.” when:
○ SU-TU > 3" , or
○ Estimated band size =/>38
○ Calculate firm fit sister size by reducing the estimated band size by one
size and increasing the cup size by one size (e.g. firm fit for 38F = 36FF).
If the adjacent cup rule was triggered, provide the firm-fit in relevant
adjacent cups as well (e.g. Firm fit for 40G/GG ➡ 38GG/H)
IV. To provide bra style suggestions
Projection
● If LO-SO =/> 3; suggest “Projected Bras” (CK Victory)
● If LO-SO =0-1; suggest “Shallow bras” (CK Smoothie Spacer)
● If LO-SO = 1-3; suggest all bras in stock in their size
Fullness
● If user selects CS; suggest “Plunge Bras” (CK Flare, Smoothie Spacer)
● If user selects SS; suggests “Side Support Bras” (CK Flare, Victory, Lovelace)
● If user selects AS; suggest all bras in stock in their size
Plus sizes calculation techniques
V shaped ribcage overestimating cup size (plus size bodies + AMAB)
Source:
https://www.reddit.com/r/ABraThatFits/comments/n5hsff/troubleshooting_the_calcul
ator_for_plus_sizes/ or u/ihatespunk
Loose: 40
Snug: 39
Tight: 38
Standing: 51
Leaning: 53
Lying: 52
Putting this into the calculator gives me a 38JJ UK. After numerous amazon prime
wardrobe orders, posting fit checks to this sub, and finally braving a good bra
boutique during the pandemic, I've found a great fit in 38G - 38GG, a full 4-5 cup
sizes smaller!
The process of working my way down through the sizes to figure this out was really
difficult and disheartening and made me feel terrible about my boobs until I found
The Size. Lately with the influx of new users I keep seeing similar comments from
other plus size people, and whats really frustrating is I'm seeing these people get
downvoted and talked down to in the comments and told to just TRUST the
calculator. I say - give the calculator a chance, but also trust your own experience; if
you try on your calculator size, do all the jiggling and swooping and scooping, and
you're still swimming, know that IT'S NOT YOUR FAULT AND YOU DIDN'T DO
ANYTHING WRONG AND YOUR BODY IS NORMAL!
Here's something I just tried to figure out how to compensate for the extra inches on
my back that aren't ever going into my cups:
1. I took a pen and made a mark in the middle of each armpit behind my boobs.
2. Then I measured across my back, where my band sits, from mark to mark. Got
20 inches.
3. Then I measured across my back, mark to mark, level with the largest part of
my bust while standing: 24 inches.
4. Tried it leaning forward: 26 inches.
That makes my back fat differential 4-6 inches... right about the same as the
overestimation from the calculator. If I subtract 5 inches from my bust
measurements then put it in the calculator, its bang on at 38G.
Non-breast projection overestimating cup size
Source: https://blogs.understance.com/size-calculator-upgrade/
● For 40-42 estimated bands, size down 1 cup
● For 44 estimated band, size down 2 cups
● For 46 estimated bands, size down 3 cups
“Given that 70-80% of our fitting models in this size range are side-full, we
corrected the size calculator to work for this shape. If you are dramatically
centre-full (breasts touching when supported), size up 1 cup if you wear 40/42
band, 2 cups if you wear 44 band, and 3 cups if you wear 46/48 bands (based
on what the current understance size calculator gives you).”
Extra Reading
Are your breasts fuller on top, fuller on bottom,
or average-ish?
Fullness refers to whether your breast tissue is
mostly above or below the nipple. It doesn't have to
do with "saggy" or "perky." This helps determine
how your breasts behave in a bra.
Lean forward, as close to 90 degrees as you can. If
your nipples are closer to your chin, your breasts are
bottom-full. If your nipples are closer to your belly
button, your breasts are top-full.
Are your roots wider, narrower, or average-ish?
Roots are where your breasts are attached to the
rest of your body. Lift your breasts up and look in
the mirror - roots are the curved line at the base.
Wide roots: Your breast tissue ends directly under
your armpit, or is connected to your back.
Narrow roots: Your breast tissue ends at least 2''
before your armpit.
Average roots: Somewhere in between.
Side-full vs. centre-full
These two sets of breasts clearly have different volumes, and need to wear different
cup sizes.
The calculator would give the correct band result for side- and centre-full, but
overestimate the cup size for side-full.
Given that 70-80% of our fitting models in this size range are side-full, we corrected
the size calculator to work for this shape. If you are dramatically centre-full (breasts
touching when supported), size up 1 cup if you wear 40/42 band, 2 cups if you wear
44 band, and 3 cups if you wear 46/48 bands.
Branatomy
Let’s be real, bras are hard and miserably difficult for some of us. Bodies come in
different shapes and sizes and your bra has to reflect this in order for it to be
comfortable. In addition to our commitment to providing the very best bras for every
shape and size, we want to provide you with all the resources you need so that you
can make the best decision for your shape!
Breast Shape Guide
Roots
Let’s Talk About Roots
Breast roots are the outline of where your breasts are
attached to the rest of your body.
Support your breasts with your hands, and look in the mirror
– your roots are the curved line at the base of your breasts.
Roots Can Be Wide
or Narrow
The widest roots can extend from chest
centre to the back, encompassing the
underarm area.
Fun Fact: The narrowest roots we have fitted
are just about 2 inches across.
Roots Can Be Tall or Short
The tallest roots start under the chin. While,
shorter roots can look like a “shelf” when
supported.
Roots and Under–F**kin’–Wire
If you are wearing an underwire bra, ideally the
underwire contours your breast roots exactly. In
this section, we are discussing the importance
of knowing your roots and how it affects the type of underwire that might work for
you.
Wide Roots
If your roots are wide, an underwire that’s too narrow will sit on your breast tissue,
irritating and damaging it. Bras for wide roots need wide underwires.
Narrow Roots
If your roots are narrow, an underwire that’s too wide will irritate the area under your
arms or even your back.
SHOP FOR NARROW ROOTS
Short Roots
If your roots are short, an underwire that’s too tall will likely give you centre gore
discomfort.
SHOP FOR SHORT ROOTS
Tall Roots
If your roots are tall, the underwire doesn’t have to “cover” all of your roots, as long as
the rest of the bra gives you proper coverage and support.
It’s ok if the centre gore doesn’t rise all the way to where your roots start at chest
centre, and the underwire doesn’t rise all the way to where your breasts start on the
sides.
SHOP FOR TALL ROOTS
Projection
What About Projection?
Projection is how “deep” your breasts are. You can be anywhere from not projected at
all (flat) to very projected.
Fullness
Let’s Talk About Fullness
For people with any amount of projection, the fullness can lie near the centre, near
the sides, or both. Without a bra on, naturally lift your breasts with your hands. If
most of your breasts are at the centre (touching when supported, or connected in
the middle), you are centre-full. If most of your breasts sit on the sides near your
arms, with a large space between them in the centre, you are side-full. If they are
equal, you have even horizontal fullness.
Average Horizontal-Fullness
Centre & Side-Full
Centre-Full
Side-Full
The Question is: How Full is the Cup?
The fullness can also lie on top, on bottom, or both. When you cup your breasts in
your hands, if most of your breasts are above the nipple, you are full-on-top. If most
of your breasts are below the nipple, you are full-on-bottom. If you have equally as
much breast tissue above and below your nipple, you have even vertical fullness
Top-full
Bottom-full
Even Vertical-fullness
Shop Shallow | Shop Medium
Shop Projected | Shop Very Projected
Breast Shapes
Different root shapes, combined with different places your fullness lies, creates many
wonderful different boob shapes. Some examples:
1: Bell
Tall and narrow roots, projected/bottom-full, relaxed.
2: Butterfly
Projected/side-full, typically with tall roots, nipples pointing outward.
3: Omega
Narrow and short roots, projected/full all-around.
4: Plate
Wide roots, not very projected.
5: Balloon
Wide and tall roots, projected/full all-around. Balloon shapes tend to struggle to
make the centre gore tack. If it’s painful to separate your breasts, it’s not necessary for
the centre gore to touch your sternum. If you want your breasts to be separated, look
for bras with narrow gores
Some Other Factors That Determine Breast Shape:
Self-Supporting or Relaxed
Breasts tend to become more relaxed with age, though they can be weighed down
by gravity at any age. Breastfeeding itself doesn’t necessarily make breasts more
relaxed, but weight loss can trigger it. There are no muscles in your breasts, so
exercise cannot prevent breasts from becoming more relaxed.
Asymmetry
Breasts can be mismatched in size and/or in shape.
IMF* Height
(*Inframammary Fold)
This is the level of the bottom of your roots. Most people’s Inframammary Fold (or
IMF) starts somewhere between the armpit and the elbow, but they can start much
lower/at stomach-level, or much higher/below your chin.
Low IMF Height
Average IMF Height
High IMF Height
Parts of a Bra
1: Cup
Seamed cup bras have sections (upper cup, lower cup, side panel). Generally
speaking, the more sections, the rounder the shape (bras with 4 sections usually give
a more rounded shape, while bras with 2 sections will give a more cone-like shape).
Molded cup bras don’t have sections.
2: Wing
Wings are a main support mechanism of bras. If you prefer more support and lift,
look for bras with strong, wide wings. If you have the habit of reading fabric content
labels, you can judge the “strength” (i.e. stretch recovery) of wings by reading the
spandex percentage. We recommend at least 20% spandex for wings if you want the
“held in” feeling.
3: Underwire
Underwire is another main support mechanism of bras. They can be wide or narrow.
They can come up short or tall in the centre gore. They can come up short or tall on
the sides (under your arms). They can be made from plastic or metal (Understance
underwires are all made from stainless steel coated in nylon). The ideal underwire
contours your breast root exactly, and shouldn’t sit on top of your breasts.
4: Centre Gore
The centre gore is where the underwires meet in the middle. Generally speaking, for
underwire bras, the bra gore should lie flat against your sternum. However, if you
have very centre-full breasts that touch when supported, or you have an inverted
sternum, the centre gore doesn’t have to touch your sternum. Wireless bras typically
don’t tack either.
5: Apex
The apex is where the straps are attached to the rest of the bra. If you struggle with
slipping straps or straps rubbing your armpit, look for bras with closer-set apex.
6: Hook and Closure
If you prefer more support, look for bras with 3-4 rows of hooks. If you prefer less
support, go for bras with 1-2 rows of hooks. Make sure the hook-and-eye pad has a
little thickness, so you don’t feel the metal hooks through the fabric.
7: Side Boning
Side boning is the plastic strip sewn into the side of the bra. It brings your breasts
toward the centre and points them forward.
Bra Care Guide
Bra Care
How to wash, dry, and store your bras so they last longer.
Washing & Drying
Washing by hand and air drying will make your bra last the longest. But if you don’t
have time and need to machine wash, make sure to:
● Hook the bra to avoid snagging, especially if it’s a lace bra
● Use a lingerie bag to protect the underwire
● Machine wash on delicate
● Tumble dry on low heat
It’s important to avoid using excessive heat because heat kills elastane (also known
as spandex or Lycra), the component that gives fabrics stretch.
Storing
Store your bras with care. Molded cup bras (made from one piece of molded foam
with no seams on the cups) can crease and lose their shape if they are crushed. Prop
up the cups when storing (you can put socks or scarves under the cups). For
underwire bras, make sure the underwire is not twisted or bent when storing.
On a similar note, don’t wear the same bra every day — give it at least a day to rest in
between wears. This allows the elastane to recover from the stretch of wearing and
your body heat, making it last longer. We recommend having at least 3 bras in your
regular rotation.